Created documentation for `SkipToContentLink` (#2326)
iTwin/iTwinUI: apps/website/src/content/docs/skiptocontentlink.mdx

---

> title: Skip to content link

Author: I have made the change.

> description: A skip-to-content link can be used to navigate directly to certain desired contents.

Author: I have made the change.

> description: A skip-to-content link can be used to navigate directly to certain desired contents.

Reviewer: Have you?

> description: A skip-to-content link can be used to navigate directly to certain desired contents.

Author: That's odd, I updated this along with the title... I have made the change.

thumbnail: #TODO
---

<p>{frontmatter.description}</p>

> <Placeholder componentPageName='table--basic' />

Author: I have removed the placeholder link.

## Usage

> `SkipToContentLink` is designed for screen reader and keyboard users and will only become visible when focused. It provides a shortcut to the main content of the page, bypassing the header and other navigation elements. The `href` prop should be set to the `id` of the main content section, and the value must include the '#' prefix.

Reviewer: The first two sentences here do not belong under "Usage", they should be placed in the intro section.

Author: I have moved these in the intro section.

<LiveExample src='SkipToContentLink.main.jsx' truncate={true}>
  <AllExamples.SkipToContentLinkMainExample client:load />

> </LiveExample>

Reviewer: If the link is not working anyway, can we simplify the examples? The main purpose of the demo would be to reveal the link upon tabbing.

The instructions can be placed outside the demo if needed.

Also, I think we can make use of static code blocks to show what the correct usage might look like within the context of an application.

Author: Hmm, I added a code block under the description and modified the examples. Hmmm, those are just my idea for the examples, I'm not sure if they look good.

Reviewer: It doesn't feel quite right; the wording, instructions and code samples do not accurately convey what a skip-to-content link is and how to use it.

I'll make some concrete suggestions tomorrow, but in the meantime I would suggest reading up on skip links in general and within the context of other design systems. That will help you understand what it is and how it should be documented.

- https://webaim.org/techniques/skipnav/
- https://benmyers.dev/blog/skip-links/
- https://css-tricks.com/a-deep-dive-on-skipping-to-content/
- https://design-system.service.gov.uk/components/skip-link/
- https://www.skyscanner.design/latest/components/skip-link/web-xYpbV1AB
- https://ebay.gitbook.io/mindpatterns/navigation/skip-navigation

Author: I have tried moving things around and changed the examples in the recent commits.

Reviewer: It looks much better now! I'll leave some suggestions separately.

---
title: SkipToContentLink
description: A skip-to-content link helps keyboard users quickly navigate to the main content.
thumbnail: #TODO
---

<p>{frontmatter.description}</p>

In some applications, numerous navigation links and other focusable elements can require a lot of keyboard presses before users reach their desired content. What is more, if users tab into a link that leads to another page with the same structure, they must tab through the same list of non-essential links again.

While this may not be an issue for sighted or mouse users, it can be cumbersome for those who rely on keyboard navigation. Therefore, a skip link is crucial to improve accessibility and streamline navigation, designed for screen-reader and keyboard users.

> 
> ```jsx
> <SkipToContentLink href='#main-content-id' />
> ```

Reviewer: Do we need this code snippet here? Feels like it should be in the usage section.

```suggestion
```

## Usage

The `SkipToContentLink` component setup requires two elements:

- The target element to skip to.
- The link pointing to that target element.

> The `href` prop can be used to direct focus to the target element. This prop must be set to the `id` of the main content section, including the `"#"` prefix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `href` prop should be used to direct focus to the target element. This prop must be set to the `id` of the main content section, including the `"#"` prefix.
```

> ```jsx {5}

Reviewer: I think line 2 is more important.

````suggestion
```jsx {2}
````

<div className='App'>
  <SkipToContentLink href='#main-content-id' />
  {/* Other elements such as header, navigation, etc. */}

>   <div id='main-content-id'>{/* Some main content that will be skipped to */}</div>

Reviewer: We could show `<main>` to encourage the use of landmarks.

```suggestion
  <main id='main-content-id'>{/* Main content that will be skipped to */}</main>
```

</div>
```

> As the skip link is visually hidden from view until focused, users typically access the link by pressing `Tab` at the start of the page. The skip link component should appear on top of the page to make sure it is one of the first items the screen readers get to and that keyboard users are able to navigate to using the keyboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the skip link is visually hidden from view until focused, users typically access the link by pressing <kbd>Tab</kbd> at the start of the page. The skip link component should appear on top of the page to make sure it is one of the first items that keyboard users are able to navigate to using the keyboard.
```

<LiveExample src='SkipToContentLink.main.jsx' truncate={true}>
  <AllExamples.SkipToContentLinkMainExample client:load />
</LiveExample>

### Custom Text

> As the link is designed for screen reader users, localization is crucial for making the application accessible and understandable. The skip link component accepts custom text through its `children` prop, allowing end users to provide a localized message.
> 
> If no custom text is provided, the default text displayed is "Skip to main content". This flexibility helps create a more inclusive and user-friendly experience for a global audience.

Reviewer: Can be made less wordy.

```suggestion
The skip link component accepts custom text through its `children` prop, which is especially useful for providing a localized message.

If no `children` is passed, the default text displayed is "Skip to main content".
```
